George Karas: Hello,
my name is George Karas,
and I am part of Apple's
Video Partner Operations team.
In this video we'll be covering
two topics.
First, a product overview
of the Apple TV app
and universal search features.
And second, a deep dive
on how to integrate content
from your video service
with these services
via metadata feeds.
So let's get started
with an understanding
of what these features are
in better detail.
First, universal search,
which can be experienced by
customers in two primary ways:
with Siri via your voice
to search for content
you want to watch,
as well as text-based search
through Spotlight
on iOS and macOS.
Safari on macOS
is also supported.
The supported content-types
within universal search
are movies, episodic TV series,
and live sporting events.
Apple then displays content
in a universal fashion
on our canonical product pages.
Now, let's talk about
the Apple TV app
and understand how this
compliments universal search.
The Apple TV app
is a standalone application
that is preinstalled
on both iOS and tvOS devices
in over 100 countries,
and is a place for everything
a customer wants to watch,
all in one place.
The Apple TV app brings
everything together:
movies, TV shows,
sports, and news.
It also tracks playback as
a person watches content
across their favorite
video services,
so that they can resume watching
right from the TV app,
across all of their devices.
The Apple TV app also provides
notifications to customers
when a new episode is available
of a TV series,
their favorite sports team
is playing live,
or there's a close game
that Apple thinks
you wouldn't want to miss.
In addition to these features,
Apple's Editorial team curates
content in a variety of ways
to promote new things to watch,
allowing customers to discover
new programs from your service.
Next up is the Siri
Live Tune-In feature,
which is available
on both iOS and tvOS
and allows customers to tune
directly to live channels
with their voice via Siri.
For TV providers
who are bringing
their full suite of channels
to Apple's platforms,
this is a great way
to allow your customers
to conveniently navigate
your entire EPG by their voice
simply by requesting the name
of the channel that is desired.
Now that we've covered
what these features are,
it's time to understand
how to technically integrate
with them.
In order for your service
to integrate
with these features,
metadata feeds are required
to be provided to Apple
so that your content can be
displayed
within the Apple TV app.
These metadata feeds
are provided in Apple's
XML specification,
and there are two kinds of feeds
you will need to understand
and develop
to participate
with this service.
First, the catalog feed,
which contains
descriptive metadata
about your VOD movies
and TV shows
and live sporting events.
If you are integrating
live sports
into the Apple TV app as well,
then Apple recommends
you provide
two separate catalog feeds:
one for your VOD content items
and another
for your live sports.
The second type of feed
is availability,
which corresponds
to the catalog feeds
provided separately,
and informs Apple
when your content is playable
with start and end dates
along with deep-link URLs
that the Apple TV app will use
to direct customers
to your application,
so content can be opened
and played.
Let's first start with an
overview of the catalog feed.
Again, this is an Apple XML feed
of descriptive metadata,
such as titles and descriptions.
TV series are
structured appropriately
across three different
content types:
TV shows, TV seasons associated
to the show,
and TV episodes
that make up the season.
Apple also supports season lists
and mini-series TV-show types
that can be provided without
the TV season level,
and instead
only the show and episodes.
In addition to these elements,
we request that you provide
a release date for movies,
premiere dates for TV shows,
and air dates for episodes.
Ratings or age classifications
can also be included
in your catalog feed,
along with cast and crew
information
and the network that originally
aired the TV show
or studio that produced
the movie.
All of this information
from your catalog feed
is used for mapping purposes
on the Apple side,
so that we can
accurately understand
that your content matches
existing references
for the same movie or TV show
in our system
and can present it accordingly
on our canonical product pages.
The last key piece
to the catalog feed is artwork,
which can be provided
for your movies and TV shows.
Apple has the ability
to leverage existing metadata
and imagery to build out
the canonical product pages.
However, it is important
that your metadata meet
our quality standards,
so that it can be
managed efficiently by Apple.
Artwork is important to be sure
your content is displayed well
within the Apple TV app,
especially for content being
prominently placed or promoted
by Apple's Editorial team.
Now let's take a look
at some XML samples
to get a bit more familiar
with these feeds.
Here we have a sample
for providing a movie
in the Apple XML catalog feed
specification.
The first things that call out
is the contentType element --
which in this example,
is equal to movie --
and a contentID that you'll use
to identify an item in the feed.
It's important that the
contentID values you provide
across your items are unique
to meet the spec
and also remain static
for that item.
Now let's take a look at how
some of the descriptive metadata
elements are provided.
Here we can see the following:
title, description, genre,
ratings, and credit information.
It's also important to notice
how certain elements,
like titles and descriptions,
are provided with a locale
that indicates the language
of the metadata.
Locales are very important
for processing your metadata
in Apple systems
and displaying it correctly
on our customers' devices.
In addition to the metadata
you are able to provide
for your content
from your own systems,
you are also able to provide
an external identifier,
such as a TMS ID from Gracenote
that can help Apple with mapping
your content efficiently.
This is especially important
if you have challenges
around providing certain pieces
of information accurately
to the definitions
of Apple's specifications.
Within the movie item,
cover artwork can be provided,
and it's important to note
that in addition to the cover
artwork shown in this example,
there are a variety of supported
image types that can provided
for your content
through the feed,
such as background images
and title-treatment logos.
You'll need to study
the documentation available
for further detail on images.
Lastly, within the movieInfo
block is where you will provide
other factual information,
such as the type of the movie,
the duration in seconds,
production studio,
and the original release date.
All of these are very important
for mapping on the Apple side.
Now, for quick comparison,
let's look at a TV-show example,
which is very similar to a movie
but with some
important differences.
The contentType element is used
to distinguish this item
correctly as a TV show,
and the same rules apply
for contentID values here,
as mentioned for movies.
Similar to movies, we have a set
of descriptive information:
title, description, genre,
ratings and advisories,
and credit information.
Locale values are equally
important here as well.
Cover artwork and other
image types
can also be provided
for TV shows
by indicating the URL
the image is available at,
the type of image it is,
and the locale to represent
the language of the artwork
if it contains text.
As mentioned, there are
different types of TV shows,
which will impact the structure
of the TV episode
that relate to the show:
standard with seasons;
seasonless or miniseries
are without seasons;
and then along with the network
that originally aired
the TV show;
and the date
it originally premiered,
which can be worldwide or local
to a country.
Now, let's talk about
sharing information
about your sporting events
in the catalog feed.
Again, Apple encourages you
to provide a separate
catalog feed
for your sporting events,
different from your VOD
catalog feed
that contains your movies
and TV shows.
For each item
in this sports feed,
you must indicate
the type of sport it is --
such as basketball,
baseball, or cricket --
and the league or tournament
the event is a part of.
For both of these,
Apple provides a dictionary
of sport name
and league abbreviation
that are required to use
in the catalog feed.
For mapping purposes,
it is important to indicate
the season of the league
the event is a part of,
as well as the competitors
participating in that event,
which would be
the teams playing in the game
or individual athletes,
depending on the type of sport
you are providing.
Additionally, including venue
information helps our system
with processing and mapping
your sporting events.
And when it comes to artwork
for sports in the Apple TV app,
it is not required to be shared
in the catalog feed.
Apple handles artwork
for sporting events
entirely from third parties
that we manage
and work with to ensure
images are appropriate
for use in the Apple TV app.
So let’s take a look
at how sports look
in the catalog feed.
Just like we saw before
for movies and TV shows,
you must indicate
the contentType
equal to "sporting_event"
and provide an appropriate
contentId value.
Titles and descriptions
are supported in the same way,
along with external identifiers
to help with mapping
if these are available to share.
Within the
sportingEventInfo block
is where you will indicate
the sport name
and league abbreviation.
Venue information
has its own block
so that you can indicate
the name of the stadium
along with where it's located.
For competitor's data,
you will provide the name,
such as Lakers and Warriors;
team abbreviations from
your own system, if available;
and designation of each of these
as the home or away team.
If you are unable
to provide competitors
for a particular event,
the venue information
will be required for that item.
Now that we have reviewed the
catalog feeds at a high level,
let’s talk about
the availability feeds
that you will also
need to provide
so that your content
can appear at the right time
in the Apple TV app.
There’s three types
of availability feeds
that are important
for you to understand.
The first schema is VOD
for your on demand movie
and TV show content.
The second is a linear
availability schema
for your live sporting events
that take place
on a 24/7 linear channel.
It’s required to provide one
linear availability per channel
that carries
live sporting events.
The last schema
is similar to VOD,
but is an availability feed
for live sporting events
that are played in event-based
fashion on a video service.
This is to support live games,
outside of
a 24/7 linear channel,
where the playable stream is
only available on your service
for duration the game
is being played live.
First, let’s understand
some basics
before we dig into
these types further.
Each availability feed
you provide
will require a serviceId value
that must be unique,
and used to identify the feed
in Apple’s systems.
Each item
in the availability feeds
will need to also reference
the catalogId value
so that Apple can match up
the information appropriately.
Playable properties
allow you to indicate
the audio language
and video streaming quality
of the content or channel
you are providing the feed for,
in addition to any
advanced media options
that may be available,
such as HDR.
The primary purpose
of the availability feeds
is to control the availability
and presentation of your content
within the Apple TV app
by offers --
window start
and end dates --
and restrictions --
information about where
and how your subscribers
are able to play back
the content.
So let’s dig in, starting with
the VOD availability feed.
For each playable item,
start and end dates are shared
to control when your video
service can be included
as a playable option
on the canonical product page.
Deep-link URLs are also
provided for each item
so that the Apple TV app
can send customers
to your application
to open and play the content
appropriately.
And additional restrictions
are shared
if your content
requires the customer
to have a specific
subscription package.
Here’s a sample
of a movie item
provided in
the VOD availability feed.
You can see here that
the contentType for that item
is also indicated in this feed,
in addition to the contentId
value and catalogId value
that carries the rest of
the descriptive information
for it separately.
Via the locators elements,
you are able to provide
the appropriate deep-link URLs
for your iOS
and tvOS applications
so that the content
can be opened for browsing,
or to initiate playback
automatically
if the customer has the
appropriate entitlements
to do so.
Playable property
information is shared
to indicate the language that
the content is available in,
the quality
of the video stream --
which for this example
is a movie
playable with HDR capability.
Additional language components
that may also be available --
like English closed captions
or Spanish subtitles,
as presented in this example --
can be indicated within
the playable properties as well.
Within the offers element is
where an offer can be provided
to specifically identify
the windowStart
and windowEnd dates within it.
The offeringType indicates
what type of customer
can play the content.
In this example, we see
the Subscription type shown,
and the other two possible types
here are Free and Account.
Subscription represents
paid subscribers,
Account represents customers
with an association
to a video service
with something such as
an email address,
and Free indicates the content
is readily playable for anyone
without any sign-up
or payment required.
The availability feed
supports the concept
of content changing
offering types,
and restrictions can also be
added to the offeringType
to represent
various subscription packages
that are a part
of your video service.
For multiple offers,
simply repeat the offer elements
with their respective
offeringType and window dates,
and add restriction tier
elements to package your content
according to how it is
offered to your customers.
The tier names used
are for you to define
but must represent packages,
and it’s best to avoid
special characters
or exceedingly long values.
Now let’s review
linear availability feeds,
which are used
to provide information about
when live sporting events are
playing on a specific channel
that is part
of your video service.
Start and end dates
are provided,
along with the stream properties
of the channel,
so that Apple can represent
the audio language
and video quality appropriately.
Just like VOD, deep-link URLs
are shared within this feed.
However, these are specific
to a playable linear channel
in your video service
instead of being specific
to a content item.
Live and broadcast flags
are important
to represent the content
accordingly to Apple,
and present these games
as live events or re-airs
within the Apple TV app.
Here’s a sample
linear availability feed
to help you get familiar
with the differences from VOD.
The basics apply here as well,
as these also have
their own serviceId
used to identify
that channel’s feed,
along with a serviceType
equal to "linear"
to differentiate the data
in Apple’s systems.
Because
a linear availability feed
is required per live channel,
the serviceId must be unique
across these feeds.
Locator deep-links
are also provided
at the service level
of the feed,
and here we can see
playableProperties information
being used to indicate
this is an English-language
channel with closed captioning,
HD video quality,
and 5.1 surround sound
capability.
And serviceOffers are used
to represent that
this channel is available
to subscription-level customers,
but additionally
restricted to those
that also subscribe
to sportsPackage12,
and are in a specific location
of the United States
as represented by the
Nielsen DMA value indicated.
To help you develop these feeds,
here are some things
you should know.
XSD files are available
with the specifications
to assist with
your validation exercises.
Apple also provides access to
the Media Feed Validator tool
to generate validation
reports
and a visual representation
of them
to be sure you are
meeting Apple’s specifications
and quality standards.
Once your feeds are passing
the Media Feed Validator
without errors, they are
ready for review by Apple.
All feeds are reviewed by Apple
before being accepted
into our production system
for regular ingestion,
and upon approval
you can start testing
your video service integration
with the Apple TV app.
Thanks for joining
this session
to better understand the product
features of the Apple TV app
and the metadata requirements
to participate with the service.
Adhering to the specifications
and recommendations
in this video
will help make your onboarding
process a smooth journey
towards customers
enjoying your best video content
from the Apple TV app.
Thank you!